.TH UK2US 1 "June 2024" "uk2us"
.SH NAME
uk2us \- convert British spellings to American spellings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uk2us
.RB [ -i ]
.RI [ file ... ]
.br
.B uk2us
.RB [ -i ]
.B -
.br
.B uk2us
.B --install-man
.RI [ path ]
.br
.B uk2us
.RB [ --help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uk2us
converts text from British spellings to their American equivalents.
Input is read from files or standard input and the converted text is written
to standard output unless the
.B -i
option is supplied to overwrite the source files in place.
.PP
The converter wraps the HoldOffHunger British to American spelling data set and
applies local overrides that can be customised with configuration files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -i , --in-place
Overwrite each input file with the converted text.  This option cannot be used
when reading from standard input.
.TP
.B --
Treat all subsequent arguments as file names, even if they begin with a dash.
.TP
.B --
install-man[=path]
Copy the bundled manual page into
.I path
(defaults to
.BR /usr/local/share/man/man1 ).
The installed file name matches the command name that invoked
.BR uk2us .
The command exits after the installation attempt.
.TP
.B --
help
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.B -
Read from standard input.  This can only be used once per invocation.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Custom overrides live in
.BR config/uk2us_rules.json .
The file contains two arrays:
.I skip_replacements
to prevent specific substitutions and
.I forced_mappings
for explicit replacements.
Set the environment variable
.B UK2US_RULES_FILE
to point to an alternate JSON configuration.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All requested operations completed successfully.
.TP
.B >0
One or more errors occurred.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Rewrite files in place:
.RS
.nf
.B uk2us -i README.md notes.txt
.fi
.RE
.TP
Convert text from standard input to standard output:
.RS
.nf
.B echo "modelling schemata" \| uk2us -
.fi
.RE
.TP
Install the manual page into a custom location:
.RS
.nf
.B uk2us --install-man=/usr/share/man/man1
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR php (1)
